
BACKROOMS WITH DIGDUG: THE MAIN NINE


Woohoohoo! What fun this is! This is where most people start before setting off to random levels.




LEVEL 0

Level 0 of the Backrooms has been given a Class 0 Survival Rate, cuz it has no entities, no danger. The shape of this dump is a sort of maze. It has yellow walls, wet
carpet, and an annoying buzzing sound coming from the flourescent office lights on the tiled ceiling. The only way to get here is by no-clipping through the floor in
our world. That's literaly it. There's pretty much no more to tell.

Fun Fact =) 
This was the first level ever discovered by A-Sync! Yay!


LEVEL 1

This is where things start to get a bit dicy. The place is even grosser than Level 0, as the floors are not only wet, but also made out of concrete, so it's pretty
slippy. It has concrete floors because it's litteraly an infinite indoor parking lot. Although it's easier to get around, it also has more dark areas, which an entity
known as Smilers are quite attracted to. Thankfuly, unlike the dump known as Level 0, this level has much more stuffs to help you survive.
ENTITIES:

Wretch-The red zombies of insanity, people who lost all sanity and begun the Wretched Cycle.

Smiler- Floating, glowing white smiley faces. They are very fast, but you can fend them off with any kind of light.

Skinstealer- Tall, desgusting humanoid creatures that will skin you alive. Obviously, they can shapeshift into people, so if you find another guy, cut them. Skinstealer
blood is clear, unlike human blood. Ask them first! When you do, tell them why. But if they say no, I'd recomend you run.

Fun Fact =)
I've never been there, but I bet it smells weird in Level 1.

LEVEL 2

Is it getting hot in here? Level 2 is mostly just long boiler-room hallways, with lots of pipes. Stuffs here are sparse, so stay there for as little time as possible.
ENTITIES:

Wretch
Smiler
Hound- Small, dog-like humanoids that look like a human before they evolved into cavemen, but less hairy and more scary. Don't run unless they chase you, don't make any
loud sounds, and don't make eye contact. If they try to hurt you, flash them. Just kidding, blind them with your flashlight.
Fun Fact =)
Sometimes, the pipes here squirt vaporized hot water on you. Don't get burned!

LEVEL 3

Sheesh, as if a repeat of Level 2 isn't bad enough! This here place is pretty much ditto to numero dos, but with wider halls, metal gates, prison cells, and risk of high
voltage. Thankfully, this place has more stuffs.
ENITIES:

Wretch

Hound

Smiler
Fun Fact=)
This place has more hounds than smilers, but the previous level has more smilers than hounds!

LEVEL 4

Also known as the Abandoned Office, this place looks like an abandoned office. There are lots of windows, but stay away from them if you can! They might suck you in.

ENTITIES

Wretches

Windows- They look like harmless windows, but stay away from them, as they will suck you in. 
Fun Fact=)
I don't know much of this place!

LEVEL 5

*mocks people who knows nothing of backrooms* "My, what a lovely hotel! I finally found a place to rest! Wait, what the **** is that!? AAAAAAAAAAAAA!!!" *blood
everywhere* Yeah, that's you if it were'nt for me. Or me if it weren't for Broogli. You won't get much rest here. It looks like an old-fashioned hotel with lots of fancy
decorations. 
ENTITIES:

Wetch

Death Moth- Eww, I hate big bugs! They scare me! Deathmoths are very big. Male deathmoths are actualy not that bad once you feed them. It's the ladies you should worry 
about! They're bigger, more aggressive, and heave a bucketsworth of acid down your throat.

The Beast/Gentleman of Level 5- He looks like one of the  the Witch of the Waste's henchmen but with a squid for a face if you ask me. He's very kind, and speaks perfect
English, but I still wouldn't trust'em.

Fun Fact=)
This place is a hotspot for deathmoths!


LEVEL 6

Aahh, yes. The darkest level in the backrooms. The lights are on, but it's still dark. Flashlights won't work here either. My, look at all those smilers!

ENTITIES:

Wretch

Smiler

Fun Fact:
Roughly 67% of people who come here don't find an exit!


LEVEL 7

Are you afraid of the ocean? I know I am! This is my least favorate level, and I don't know if I would last half an hour here. I hope you can swim.
You wake up in your own house after somehow escaping from the darkest level in the infinite of the backrooms. You did it! You finally escaped! But something's wrong.
You hear waves, so you look out the window. Your house is trapped in the middle of the ocean! You go downstairs, and the house is flooded! You step into the water on the
floor and almost fall. The gravity is extremely high for some reason. You find a random whirlpool in the living room, and fall in. so there you are, underwater, with a 
bunch of fish skeletons. If you find a cave, it will lead you to my second least favorate level.

ENTITIES:

Fish Skeletons- Exactly what it sounds like.


LEVEL 8

Aaaiieee! I don't like this one! It's a claustrophobic cave with tight spaces!

ENTITIES:

Wretch

Smiler

Clump- Clumps are bundles of human limbs that are very fast and can squeeze into tight spaces. Just hug it out! (don't)