

3MICE: MOUSENEST 2023

A sort of city, built with stolen things. Little lost things. A wall of cob and wood protects it from those dumbass cops. Protects us. 
We are the 3Mice, a tribe of children and young adults. Nameless children. Many with creative nicknames, bred into crime. Bred into the 3Mice.
This is our home, built out of stolen things. Little lost things, with buildings of scrap metal and sheets of wood stolen from Loes, labeled with spraypaint 
and stolen neon signs. Outside is a forest. Invisible tree forts for ambushing, cuz we don't like human society. We mug any foolish hiker we see, knocking them
out and kidnapping them to cook them. This is how we survive. We are the 3Mice. This is how the 2023 cronicle begins. 




CAPTAIN DIGDUG: *wakes up in the cener of the Mousenest, the top of it's biggest fort*

1ST MATE FRIKFRAK: *also wakes up*

2ND MATE KITKAT: *also wakes up*

CAPTAIN DIGDUG: Mornin'! Let's head to the Bar for some breaky.

OTHER 2: That sounds good.

ALL: *climbs down Clunkplanks, leave Safezone*


They walk along, other citizens wake up.


ALL: *enter bar, bell rings*

BAR OWNER ZEAK: Mornin' cap'n! *solutes* I saved you your favorate mug.

DIGDUG: Thanks. *takes human skull, crafted into mug*

Digdug pours hot cocoa into his skull mug.

DIGDUG: I remember this head's body. He was one of them, one of the cops. I have so many great memories, like the time I stole his pistol and shot him in the knee.
Great times! In the end, we knocked'em out, stole his things, stole his clothes, skinned him to use for clothes, cooked his meats, utilized his bones for jewlery, and 
his skull...to make this beautiful mug. That was my fovorate part. *cackles quietly*

ZEAK: Why do you always laugh maniacaly whenever you take a sip from your cup?

KITKAT: *changes subject* Wanna play Pokemon?

ZEAK & FRIKFRAK: Yeah, okay.

they get out all their cards and show them to eachother

FRIKFRAK: Okay, Digdug...I'll trade you my Roganrolla for your Noibat.

DIGDUG: Yeah, alright. *takes sip of cocoa* First we must attack. I'll go first, since I'm weaker.

FRIKFRAK: Yeah, I guess that makes sense.

DIGDUG: Rapid Draw! Boom, now you have 60 damage. 

(rapid draw does 10 damage and rogenrolla has 70 and noibat has 60)

FRIKFRAK: Rolling Tackle.

DIGDUG: How much does that do?

FRIKFRAK: 20.

after they finished the trading battle, they pretended their cards were kissing, then they traded Pokemon.

